---
title: Private Piety Precedes Providential Promotion
date: 2022-07-03T15:10:21.560Z
---

<p>How can a person obtain favor from the Almighty?</p>

### **Highlight**

<blockquote style="font-weight: bold !important" class="!text-transparent bg-clip-text bg-gradient-to-r from-blue-500 to-teal-500 dark:from-violet-500 dark:to-pink-500"> For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.</blockquote> - Ezra 7:10

---

### **Explanation**

#### **Background**

##### Who was Ezra?

> _Ezra apparently had official status as a commissioner of the Persian government, and his title, “scribe of the law of the God of heaven,” is best understood as “royal secretary for Jewish religious affairs,” or the like. The Persians were tolerant of native cults but, in order to avert internal strife and to prevent religion from becoming a mask for rebellion, insisted that these be regulated under responsible authority. The delegated authority over the Jews of the satrapy (administrative area) “beyond the river” (Avar-nahara), or west of the Euphrates River, was entrusted to Ezra; for a Jew to disobey the Law he brought was to disobey “the law of the king.”_ - <a class="!text-transparent bg-clip-text bg-gradient-to-r from-blue-500 to-teal-500 dark:from-violet-500 dark:to-pink-500" href="https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ezra-Hebrew-religious-leader">Ezra | Encyclopædia Britannica<a>
	
##### In what way was Ezra promoted?
 Ezra was granted his request to restore the operation of the temple of Jehovah in Jerusalem. He was entrusted by the king of Persia to take persons and treasures on his four month trip to the holy city; the great generosity of the king was because the hand of the Lord his God was upon him.

---

#### **Summary**

Ezra the scribe made himself ready to _consult_ the Law of God, to _obey_ it’s commands, and to _teach_ it to others.

---

### **Application**

In order to receive divine favor, I - like Ezra - must not simply be aware of God's Words, but must engage in careful study of the holy scriptures with the express purpose of obeying, and sharing the commands and principles found therein.

---

### **Response**

Lord,
help me to remember that You attach Your favor to those who exalt and obey Your Word. Empower me to share Your Words with others!
