---
title: Real Repentance Requires Redress
date: 2022-07-04
---

<script>
	import Gradient from '../src/lib/components/Gradient.svelte';
    import Reference from '../src/lib/components/Reference.svelte';
    import Intro from '../src/lib/components/Intro.svelte';
</script>

<p>What are the marks of true repentance?</p>

---

<Intro>Ezra 9 + Ezra 10</Intro>

---


## **Highlight**

<blockquote style="font-weight: bold !important"> 
<Gradient>"Now therefore make confession unto the Lord God of your fathers, and do His pleasure: and separate yourselves from the people of the land, and from the strange wives. Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, 'As thou has said, so must we do. But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand without, neither is this the work of one day or two: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing. Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.'"</Gradient>
</blockquote> - Ezra 10:11-14

---

## **Explanation**

### **Synopsis**

> After leading the second Exodus of the Jews from Babylon to Jersulam, Ezra became overwhelmed with the sins of the returned exiles. During a time of prayer and weeping, he was confronted by a large assembly of Israelites who agreed with his assessment and responded with sincere repentance. What followed was a deliberate coordination by the Jewish people with the priests and leaders to rectify their iniquity. Every man who had married a foreign wife, terminated his marriage and sent away any children of their union. So careful were the people to ensure that every sinner complied that they took a total of three months to complete this process of obedience. 

### **Summary**

To be truly biblical, repentance should involve not only a mental and emotional response, but a practical, accountable, and sometimes public rejection of the 'rewards' of unrighteousness.

---

## **Application**

I have not truly repented if I am not motivated by sincere contrition to take the time necessary to evaluate the benefits that I derive from my sinful actions and act in conjuction with an accountability partner to change my current and future behavior and forsake those rewards.<br/>

### Additional References

- <Reference>2 Corinthians 11:2</Reference> • The union of a wife and husband is simply a limited, earthly representation of the union of Christians to Christ; I am to be a pure bride awaiting thier groom.<br/>
- <Reference>Ephesians 5:21-24</Reference> • Spouses must submit to each other just as the church must submit to Christ.<br/>
- <Reference>Romans 15:1-3</Reference> • For the edification of weak Christians, strong Christians ought to be 'accountabilty partners' to them, like Christ was to His twelve disciples<br/>
---

## **Response**

Lord, <br/>
Help me not to accept an 'easy repentance', but to ensure that my repentance is truly sincere and entire.<br/> Help me to seek accountability and to be willing to keep another brother in Christ be accountable as well. <br/>
Amen.

---

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<strong 
    style="font-weight: 800; font-size: clamp(1.42em, 1.5em, 1.67em); line-height: 1.3333333"
>
    Alternate Title:
</strong>
<br/>
<br/>
<strong 
    style="font-weight: 700; color: inherit; font-size: clamp(1.42em, 1.5em, 1.67em); line-height: 1.5"
>
    <Gradient>
        Real Repentance is Revealed by Renewed Remorse for Reprobacy; Results in Rightful Retrospection; Refuses to Rationalize Rebellion; Resolves to Relinquish Rewards Reaped from Rascality; Recovers Reverence for Righteousness
    </Gradient>
</strong>