---
title: Private Piety Precedes Providential Promotion
date: 2022-07-03T15:10:21.560Z
---

<script>
	import Gradient from '../src/lib/components/Gradient.svelte';
    import Reference from '../src/lib/components/Reference.svelte';
    import Intro from '../src/lib/components/Intro.svelte';
</script>

<p>How can a person obtain favor from the Almighty?</p>

---

<Intro>Ezra 7 + Ezra 8</Intro>

---

## **Highlight**

<blockquote style="font-weight: bold !important"> 
<Gradient>For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.</Gradient>
</blockquote> - Ezra 7:10

---

## **Explanation**

### **Background**

> _Ezra apparently had official status as a commissioner of the Persian government, and his title, “scribe of the law of the God of heaven,” is best understood as “royal secretary for Jewish religious affairs,” or the like. The Persians were tolerant of native cults but, in order to avert internal strife and to prevent religion from becoming a mask for rebellion, insisted that these be regulated under responsible authority. The delegated authority over the Jews of the satrapy (administrative area) “beyond the river” (Avar-nahara), or west of the Euphrates River, was entrusted to Ezra; for a Jew to disobey the Law he brought was to disobey “the law of the king.”_ - <a href="https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ezra-Hebrew-religious-leader">Ezra | Encyclopædia Britannica<a>

### **Summary**

Ezra the scribe made himself ready to _consult_ the Law of God and to _obey_ it’s commands.

---

## **Application**

In order to receive favor from God, I must also make internal preparations to study God’s Word and commit in advance to obey the precepts and principals found therein. <br/>

### Additional References

- <Reference>Psalm 5:12</Reference> • God's favor is with the righteous<br/>
- <Reference>Psalm 84:11</Reference> • God withholds no good from the upright <br/>
- <Reference>Proverbs 12:2</Reference> • A good man obtains God's favor<br/>

---

## **Response**

Lord, <br/>
Help me to remember that You attach Your favor to those who exalt and obey Your Word. <br/> Empower me to share Your Words with others!
